.\" Copyright (c) 2012
.\"	Hiroki Sato <hrs@FreeBSD.org>.	All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd January 26, 2012
.Dt RC.D/IP6ADDRCTL 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm ip6addrctl
.Nd rc.d script for configuring address selection policy for IPv4 and IPv6
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Oo fast|force|one Oc Ns Ar start|stop|restart|rcvar
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is an
.Xr rc.d 8
script to configure address selection policy for IPv4 and IPv6 by using
.Xr ip6addrctl 8
utility.
.Sh COMMAND LINE ARGUMENTS
The standard
.Xr rc.d 8
arguments are supported.
For more information, see the section of
.Fn run_rc_command
in the
.Xr rc 8
manual page.
.Sh CONFIGURATION VARIABLES
The following
.Xr rc.conf 5
variables are supported.
To show all of the supported variables and the default values,
use
.Li rcvar
argument:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width "01234567890123456789" -compact
.It Va ip6addrctl_policy
.Pq Vt str
Specify an pre-defined address selection policy.
The following keywords are valid:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width "012345678912" -compact
.It Li ipv4_prefer
IPv4 is used for the source address when both IPv4 and IPv6 addresses can be
used.
.Pp
.It Li ipv6_prefer
IPv6 is used for the source address when both IPv4 and IPv6 addresses can be
used.
.Pp
.It Li AUTO
The policy will be selected based on the existence of the file
.Pa /etc/ip6addrctl
and the value of the
.Va ipv6_activate_all_interfaces 
.Xr rc.conf 5
variable.
If the file exists, it will be loaded as the policy.
If the file does not exist and the variable is set to
.Li YES ,
.Va ipv6_prefer
will be used.
Otherwise,
.Va ipv4_prefer
will be used.
.El
.Pp
.It Va ip6addrctl_verbose
.Pq Vt bool
The configured policy table will be displayed if set to
.Li YES.
.El
.Pp
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr rc.conf 5 ,
.Xr ip6addrctl 8 ,
.Xr rc 8
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
script appeared in
.Fx 8.0 .
.Sh AUTHORS
This manual page was written by
.An Hiroki Sato Aq hrs@FreeBSD.org .
