.\" Copyright (c) 2012
.\"	Hiroki Sato <hrs@FreeBSD.org>.	All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd January 26, 2012
.Dt RC.D/ZFS 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm zfs
.Nd rc.d script for
.Li ZFS
subsystem
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Oo fast|force|one Oc Ns Ar start|stop|restart|rcvar
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is an
.Xr rc.d 8
script to control
.Li ZFS
subsystem.
.Sh COMMAND LINE ARGUMENTS
The standard
.Xr rc.d 8
arguments are supported.
For more information, see the section of
.Fn run_rc_command
in the
.Xr rc 8
manual page.
.Sh CONFIGURATION VARIABLES
The following
.Xr rc.conf 5
variables are supported.
To show all of the supported variables and the default values,
use
.Li rcvar
argument.
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width "01234567890" -compact
.It Va zfs_enable
.Pq Vt bool
Set to
.Dq Li YES
to enable
.Li ZFS
subsystem at boot time.
More specifically, the following will be performed:
.Pp
.Bl -bullet -offset indent -compact
.It
All of ZFS datasets with a valid
.Li mountpoint
property on the system will be mounted automatically by
zfs mount
.Fl a
command.
.Pp
.It
All of ZFS datasets with
.Li org.freebsd:swap
property on the system will be added as a swap space.
.El
.El
.Pp
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr rc.conf 5 ,
.Xr rc 8
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
script appeared in
.Fx 8.0 .
.Sh AUTHORS
This manual page was written by
.An Hiroki Sato Aq hrs@FreeBSD.org .
