.\"-
.\" Copyright (c) 2018 Mark Johnston <markj@FreeBSD.org>
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd March 6, 2018
.Dt netdump 4
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm netdump
.Nd protocol for transmitting kernel dumps to a remote server
.Sh SYNOPSIS
To compile netdump client support into the kernel, place the following line in
your kernel configuration file:
.Bd -ragged -offset indent
.Cd "options NETDUMP"
.Ed
.Pp
Debug output can be enabled by adding the following line:
.Bd -ragged -offset indent
.Cd "options NETDUMP_DEBUG"
.Ed
.Sh DESCRIPTION
netdump is a UDP-based protocol for transmitting kernel dumps to a remote host.
A netdump client is a panicking kernel, and a netdump server is a host
running the
.Nm
daemon, available in ports as
.Pa ports/ftp/netdumpd .
.Nm
clients are configured using the
.Xr dumpon 8
utility.
.Pp
The following network drivers support netdump:
.Xr alc 4 ,
.Xr bge 4 ,
.Xr em 4 ,
.Xr igb 4 ,
.Xr ix 4 ,
.Xr re 4 ,
.Xr vtnet 4 .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr dumpon 8
.Sh HISTORY
.Nm
client support first appeared in
.Fx 12.0 .
.Sh BUGS
Only IPv4 is supported.
